{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2578
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red25\green60\blue255;\red25\green61\blue255;\red251\green0\blue7;
\red26\green63\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c12594\c35385\c100000;\cssrgb\c13005\c35866\c100000;\cssrgb\c100000\c12195\c0;
\cssrgb\c13414\c36345\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13580\viewh16080\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 9/17/21\
Ethereum & Solidity Course Notes\
https://www.udemy.com/course/ethereum-and-solidity-the-complete-developers-guide/\
Section 2- Smart Contracts with Solidity\
\
33. Contract Deployment\
- \cf2 Truffle\cf0 \
	- Software that lets you create ethereum contracts, test them, and deploy them\
	- very rough, some features don\'92t work well\
\
\
34-37. Building our own version of Truffle, using node.js\
- compiling- need to set up solidity compiler\
	- in order to do any testing or deployment, we need to have this compile.js file done first!\
- testing- need to set up custom Mocha to test solidity code\
- deploying- set up deploy script to compile + deploy contract\
\
\
39-40. Compiling Solidity\
- our compile.js needs to take in contract source (.sol file) and output two files:\
	- 
\f1\b \cf4 \ul \ulc5 ABI (Application Binary Interface)
\f0\b0 \cf0 \ulnone - JS Interpretation layer which lets us interact \
	- Contract \cf4 Bytecode\cf0  (machine code)\
- don\'92t use require( \'91file_path\'92 ) of contract file because node will execute that file!!\
- we\'92ll be using built in modules to bring in contract sol file\
\
\
41-43. Testing Architecture\
- will deploy our bytecode to a Local Test Network\
	- will use libraries called \cf2 Ganache CLI\cf0  (old name is \cf2 TestRPC\cf0 )\
- \cf4 web3\cf0  = library to interact with deployed contract on the blockchain \
	- helps us communicate between a JS app and the Ethereum network\
	- video uses npm install web3@1.0.0-beta.26\
- will use the ABI to interact with web3 (see lecture slide)\
\
\
44. Web3 Versioning\
- vast majority of documentation are all using the older web3 v0.x.x\
	- only primitive syntax for callbacks only\
- newer version v1.x.x has support for promises + async/await\
\
\
45. Web3 Providers\
- \cf4 Provider\cf0  = \
	- communication layer between web3 library and some specific ethereum network\
	- can think of the Provider as a telephone and a web3 instance and Ganache as two\
	  people who are trying to communicate \
	- see slides 45 and 55\
	- instructs web3 library what blockchain network we\'92re connecting to (ex. Main ETH net, rinkeby test)\
\
\
46-47. Mocha\
\cf2 describe( \'93description\'94, cb ) \cf0 \
Parameters:\
- \'93description\'94 (string) = describes what you\'92re testing\
- cb (callback) = \
\
\
48-51. Web3\
- we can use web3 to create/deploy contracts (need ABI & bytecode)\
- also can use web3 to interact with existing deployed contracts (need ABI & address of contract)\
\
\
gas vs gasPrice\
\cf4 Gas\cf0  = \
- \cf2 cost to do operations on the ethereum blockchain (VM)\cf0 \
- Ex. Adding two numbers cost 3 Gas, Getting a balance of an account can cost 400 Gas\
- the execution fee, paid by the sender of the transaction\
- a smart contract could have multiple operations that could cost hundreds of thousands of Gas\
\
\cf4 gasPrice\cf0  = \
- measured in GWEI (unit of ETH. 1 GWEI = .000000001 ETH)\
- the amount of GWEI the user is willing to spend on 1 unit of gas\
\
Ex. \
if I had a function on the smart contract that just added two numbers, that would cost 3 Gas. \
And the current gasPrice = 100\
The total amount I would pay to execute that function:  \
\cf4 Total Fee (paid by sender) = Gas * gasPrice\cf0 \
 = 3 * 100 = 300 Gas\
\
\cf4 Gas Limit\cf0 \
- maximum amount of gas that a user is willing to pay for confirming a transaction\
(Minimum of 21,000)\
\
\
55-56. Deployment to Rinkeby Network\
- 1) we take our account Mnemonic and plug it into the Provider \
- 2) \cf4 Infura API\cf0 \
	- public API\
	- lets us get access to a node on the test network (ex. Rinkeby)\
	- helps us deploy/get access to the network\
	- if we didn\'92t have Infura, we would have to host our own Node on our local machine\
\
\
\
60. If we get an error in terminal: Error transaction underpriced\
- this is due to the EIP 1599 hard fork\
- to prevent this we need to specify a gasPrice with an amount high enough to ensure the transaction\
  Will get mined quickly:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 .send(\{ gas: '1000000', gasPrice: '5000000000', from: accounts[0] \});\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
61-65\
- we could build some HTML/CSS/JS application to interact with the deployed smart contract\
- \cf2 https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/\cf0 \
	- lets us read transactions into the test ETH networks\
	- type the address of the deployed contract into the search bar to see more info\
- can interact with deployed contract in \ul remix\
\ulnone -   \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
QUESTIONS\
- RE: deploy.js, regarding .send(\{gas:1,000,000, gasPrice:5,000,000,000, from\})\
  - need to confirm what gas vs gasPrice represents\
  - who determines those numbers?/why did the video input 1m and 1b?\
\
- Why doesn\'92t calling a function cost anything?\
	- servers still have to respond, and doesn\'92t that take up electricity/bandwidth?\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}