{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2578
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red25\green60\blue255;\red251\green0\blue7;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue0;\red26\green63\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c12594\c35385\c100000;\cssrgb\c100000\c12195\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c1\c1;
\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c13414\c36345\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13580\viewh18460\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 9/21/21\
Ethereum & Solidity Course Notes\
https://www.udemy.com/course/ethereum-and-solidity-the-complete-developers-guide/\
Section 3- Advanced Smart Contracts\
\
66-67) Building a Lottery App\
- Lottery Contract\
- when people send ETH to the Prize Pool in the Lottery Contract, they become Players\
- Manager tells Lottery Contract to pick a winner\
- then Contract will pick winner and send ETH to winner, then resets\
- see lecture slide 3-2-67 for Smart Contract Class Design\
- Enter = function in the smart contract that someone can \'93send a transaction to\'94 to enter a\
Player in the lottery\
\
\
69) \cf2 Solidity Variable Types\cf0 \
- see lecture slide 3-3-69 for table of variable types\
\cf3 Address\cf0  Type\
	- contains ethereum address\
String\
Bool\
\cf3 fixed\
	\cf4 Fixed Point Number = number with a decimal  Ex. 20.001, -1.03\
\cf3 ufixed\cf4 \
	Unfixed Point Number = positive number with decimal\cf3 \
int\cf0 \
	Integer. Positive or Negative. \ul Has no decimal\ulnone . Ex 0, -300, 200\
\cf3 uint\cf0 \
	\cf3 Unsigned\cf0  Integer. Positive number. Has no decimal. Ex 0, 300, 200\
\
Integer Ranges\
- number after int or uint = \cf2 specifies number of bits used to store this number\cf0 \
- the number of bits used to store a number specifies how large/small a number can be\
- if you\'92re ever unsure what size to choose, you can always just choose biggest (int256 = int)\
- but you do have to pay for the extra storage\
- see slide 3-4-69\
Ex. \
	\cf3 int8\cf0  = means there are 8 bits used to store this number. (Only hold values from -128 to 127)\
	int = \cf3 int256\cf0  same thing\
\cf3 bit (Binary digIT)\cf0  = 0 or 1, off or on\
\
71) \cf3 Global Message Variable\cf0  / Object (\cf3 msg\cf0 )\
- properties on it like who sent the transaction to the network, and details about the transaction \
- global variable that's available to any function \
- MSG PROPERTIES:    1\
	1) msg.data = includes contract source code (for contract creation) and any arguments of functions\
 	2) msg.gas = amount of gas available to us to run our code (rarely used)\
	3) \cf2 msg.sender\cf0  = address of the account that started the function invokation \
	4) \cf2 msg.value\cf0  = amount of ether (in wei) that was sent along with the function invokation\
\
\
72) \cf3 Reference Type\cf0  Variable\
\cf3 Fixed Array\cf0 \
	- contains a \ul single type\ulnone  of element, \ul fixed length\ulnone  (unlike in JS)\
	Ex. \cf2 int[ 3 ]\cf0 		// has size 3\
\cf3 Dynamic Array\cf0 \
	-  contains a \ul single type\ulnone  of element. Length can change over time\
	Ex1. \cf2 int[ ]\cf0  		// leave brackets blank\
\
\
\
72. Arrays\
- getter method from storage variables that are arrays do NOT return the entire array!!\
  They take in an index, and return the element at that index\
- you can create your own method that returns the entire array\
   See test.sol \
- the above only works for arrays of simple data types like integers / booleans.\
  It would NOT work for an array of arrays or an array of structs\
Ex. Create a dynamic array of unsigned integers (with a getter method) called myArray\
\cf2 	uint[ ] public myArray;\cf0 \
\
73. Mapping and Struct Variable Types\
\cf3 Mapping\cf0 \
- Collection of key value pairs (like JavaScript Objects, ruby hashes, or python dictionaries)\
- All keys must be the same type, and all values must be the same type\
- the set of keys and the set of values don\'92t have to be the same type\
Ex. Create a Mapping called myPantry with keys of type string, and values of type integer\
\cf2 	mapping( string => int256 ) public myPantry;\cf0  \
\
\cf3 Struct\cf0 \
- a collection of key value pairs that can have different types\
- usually used to represent a singular thing (ex. House, car, \'85 )\
Ex. Create a struct called Car with properties of make, model, and value\
	\cf2 struct Car \{\
		string make;\
		string model;\
		uint value;\
	\}\cf0 \
\
\
74. Big Solidity Gotchas!\
1) \
- in solidity you CAN make nested dynamic arrays (2D arrays of dynamic lengths)\
- there is\cf5  
\f1\b \ul NO way yet to pull nested dynamic arrays from solidity to ABI/JS/Web3!!!
\f0\b0 \cf0 \ulnone \
	- this is not a limitation of solidity or JS, but a limitation of the bridge between\
	  solidity and JS (Web3?)\
2)\
- \cf2 strings in solidity are represented as dynamic arrays\cf0 !!\
- that means we 
\f1\b \ul can NOT transfer arrays of strings over to javascript
\f0\b0 \ulnone \
	- however, there are ways to get around this\
\
\
76. Validation\
- \cf3 require( boolean_expression );\cf0 \
- if the boolean_expression is false, the entire function stops and exits!\
- if boolean_expression is true, then code runs as usual\
- Ex. If someone is entering the lottery, they need to send ether\
- the \'93value\'94 field in Remix Editor is the amount of ether that someone sends\
 with a contract. \
\
\
78. Pseudo Random Number Generator\
- hard to have a truly random number in solidity\
- can have a almost random number generator by passing into a SHA3 function:\
	- 1Current Block Difficulty\
	- 2 Current time\
	- 3 Address of players\
	=> returns really big hexadecimal number\
- \cf3 sha3\cf0  ( ) = global function in solidity (instance or type of keccak256 function)\
- \cf3 keccak256\cf0 ( ) = global function that is a class of hash functions\
	=> returns a hash (32 byte array or 256 bit string)\
	ex. "0x300330ecd127756b824aa13e843cb1f43c473cb22eaf3750d5fb9c99279af8c3\'94\
\
\
78a) NOW Global Variable\
\cf2 now\cf0  = global variable (type uint). Current timestamp as seconds since unix epoch\
	- same as \cf2 block.timestamp\cf0  (removed in solidity version 0.7.0)\
\ul https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.7/units-and-global-variables.html\ulnone \
\
\
79b) \cf3 UINT function\cf0 \
\cf2 uint( )\cf0 \
- takes in array (or string) \
- returns => unsigned integer\
\
\
80. Sending Ether from Contracts\
\cf3 address.transfer( Wei )\cf0 \
- will take Wei from current contract and send it to address\
- address is an object instance (of type Address), which has some methods like .transfer\
-\cf3  this.balance\cf0  = amount of ether that exists in the current contract\
	- deprecated, so use \
		\cf3 address(this).balance\cf0 \
Ex. \
	\cf2 player.transfer(this.balance);\cf0 \
\
\
83. Function Modifiers\
- way to not repeat code (ex. Bunch of the same require() in each function\
- see slide 83\
\
\
QUESTIONS\
- do solidity functions HAVE to have a return value? Can they return \'93undefined\'94?\
- players = new address[ ]( 0 );\
	- creates a new dynamic array of addresses, with an initial size of 0\
	- if we didn\'92t have the ( 0 ), what would the initial size of the array be?\
\
\
\
}