{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11180\viewh16080\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 11/5/21\
Ethereum & Solidity Course Notes\
https://www.udemy.com/course/ethereum-and-solidity-the-complete-developers-guide/\
Section 7- Advanced Multipage Front Ends\
\
157. \
- Note even though this is section 7, This lesson will build on top of/use the project from section 6\
- slide 1 is landing screen/home page (Kick Starter is called Crowd Coin)\
- pressing create button on front end, will trigger create campaign method on blockchain\
- note*\
\
\
158. Next.js\
- Framework built on top of react that aas server side rendering/routing (Create-React-App doesn\'92t have this)\
- Has React + other tools in one package \
- Docs: https://nextjs.org/docs\
\
159. Next.js Architecture\
- a new directory called .next will be automatically created\
	- \'93where all the magic happens\'94\
- we\'92ll make a directory called \ul pages\ulnone \
	- must be called \'93pages\'94 !! \
	- where all the react components go\
	- file names inside folder will be front/backend routes!\
	- a file named \'93\ul index.js\ulnone \'94 will be the root route/home page\
\
167. Next JS Server Side Rendering\
- see slide 10\
- Next JS will render react app server side before sending to client!!\
- Pros:\
	- client can sees app quicker (because browser doesn\'92t have to do all parsing)\
	- SEO \
- Cons:\
\
\
170. Get Initial Props (next.js)\
- data fetching on server side can\'92t be done in componentDidMount\
- must be done in special Next.js Function called getInitialProps\
- next will execute getInitialProps first, then take output of getInitialProps\
And use it to render (server side) the component\
\
\
173. Semantic UI React Library \
Docs:\
https://react.semantic-ui.com/\
\
\
182. Nested Routes (with Next.js)\
- simply create a new folder (ex. With the name \'93campaign\'94, and a file in it called \'93new.js\'94)\
URLS\
	/				homepage\
	/campaigns/new		page to create new campaign	\
\
\
191. Routing Issues\
- if we want routes with wild cards\
Ex. 	/campaigns/[:id]\
We need to install another npm module\
	npm install next-routes --legacy-peer-deps\
- docs:\
	https://github.com/fridays/next-routes\
\
\
199. Redeploying Smart Contract\
- After any modifications we do to our smart contract, we need to:\
	- 1) recompile smart contract (run compile.js)\
	- 2) redeploy smart contract of campaign factory (run deploy.js)\
	- 3) update factory.js file with new smart contract address (of campaign factory)\
\
\
QUESTIONS\
- Re: next.js, I still don\'92t understand how _app.js works\
\
\
\
\
}